hugo turner is a writer and a researcher
specializing in the history of
anti-imperialism
he blogs at anti-dash imperialist
u.blogspot.com
and you can find him on twitter at hugo
turner 1969
and on facebook as well i'm excited to
have him here to discuss his new article
sullivan and cromwell capitalism
intelligence and fascism
which appears at libya360.wordpress.com
this is an article about the infamous us
corporate law firm
that launched the careers of the dulles
brothers so thanks for coming on today
hugo
thanks for inviting me definitely uh
so it's common on the left to talk about
people talk about corporate power but
it's
it's kind of abstract so what you've
done here is you're focusing on one of
the law firms that's kind of so
important
the real guiding hands of the corporate
power so tell us how corporate lawyers
have affected
our history well uh sullivan cromwell
is what is the premier wall street law
firm but it
serves even more powerful which is like
the multinational corporations
and then before there was a cia the
corporations had to carry out their own
coups and solar crop was a law firm they
could go to if you wanted that kind of
thing done
united food was like another corporation
that could carry out coups on its
own so sullivan kravo i mean i'm
interested mainly because
of course the most influential cia
director
uh dollops worked at solenoid problem so
did his brother
who became the secretary of state was a
major cold war
architect john foster dulles when i was
reaching out to you i discovered that
the
celebrity incredible had created the
panama canal and
launched the coup and done all that
stuff that in
school either that was teddy roosevelt
but this is before teddy was that was
in office so if you want to cover
like the history of the corporations the
rise of multinational like the birth of
our world where like intelligence
agencies
and these multinational corporations
rule the world there's really nothing
ordinary people can do about it
you gotta like research the history of
solomon crabwell because
it's just sort of a case study and how
things really work
yeah let's start with the let's start
with the beginning of their history
uh you wrote basically this started uh
from even before the civil war
yes there's two founders algonaut sydney
sullivan
and he before before the civil war he
had uh
well he was married to one of george
washington's descendants with
private american aristocracy and she was
like very pro-slavery pro-south
and his clients were all like southern
businessmen
who when they did business done in new
york they would use him
so he was actually locked up during the
civil war for defending pirates by
the then secretary of state william
seward because
and he was considered like treacherous
for doing this basically like today we
would call them terrorists basically
because they
bought these ships and were just waiting
without any
like under pretending to be a merchant
ship and raiding people and they were
caught
these were the southern ships the
confederate ships right yeah this is
these confederate pirates said he was
locked in jail but it was released right
before the thing actually went to trial
and he won the case
but his partner was actually the son of
a union officer
it's kind of like how solid and criminal
always hedges his bets and will play
both sides of the fencer it has a
paradoxical side to the way they do
things
like they were the first to hire jewish
lawyers but then they were also
like central and doing business with
nazi germany
sullivan was the first one to sponsor a
black lawyer
to join the new york bar so that's just
like an example of that
and cromwell is the one who actually
brought the firm into
full success like sullivan had this
career but it's like ups and downs and
then
he gets this young guy cromwell is only
25 at the time to be his partner
and then he died fairly early on so it's
really criminal that mastered by the
the rise of southern crime well by
working for people like jp morgan
the rockefellers w april herrera goldman
sachs etc
and this is all like after the civil war
yes
sullivan died in 1877. so after that it
was
really cromwell i was in charge oh okay
okay so so he's after the civil war
cromwell's kind of taking over how how
is he running you said here he was
helped uh jp morgan create u.s steel yes
that
do they create there was this at the
time was this anti-trust
legislation so they created this new
thing called a multinational
i mean a new thing called corporation
was actually just to get around this
trust thing and
this was a u.s steel was like a steel
trust
that were made with you know basically
the most
powerful or like i think there was two
of them steel companies in the united
states so they'd
like jfk went up against usc all during
the 60s where he was killed
because he they were cheating the people
with their monopoly so and uh cromwell
was criminal basically and he gave him
the idea and
he did all like the legal work that was
kind of like what he would do is
they would have states that were trying
to pass regulations so they would create
these
corporations would disband and create a
new corporation in the state that didn't
have those regulations because
criminal had already like got the people
to pass the laws that make it a
corporate haven places like new jersey
they still have this thing where
the reason why all those wall street
firms don't pay taxes is because
they're like a lot of them are
incorporated in new jersey where like
they pass these laws that they wouldn't
have to barely pay any taxes
and they could do whatever they wanted
so uh as a servant to corporate power he
rose and seldom probably became the top
wall street law firm
soleno carmel like most corporate law
firms would divide to associated
partners
it would hire the top graduates from law
schools
and then um they would work they would
exploit these parts
you know just exploit these associates
because they would hope to get the
partner
they would just like work all the long
hours and do all of the grunt work
they kept expanding the number of the
associates so
the dive over work there was like a
strange loyalty because people like to
work for solo incredible because
at least they got to immediately start
doing like important work
because they were being exploited kind
of so um
and promo institutionalized loyalty by
creating the sullivan criminal society
which had a
yearly dinner where every former
associate would
come back there and work there and solo
cabo was not i mean
people that didn't make partners would
go on to like different influential
positions in the corporate world
it was one of the strangest thing is
they even maintained close relations
with
people that were rejected which included
richard nixon
and he thanked them for not hiring when
he was the vice president because
he was like if i would if you hired me
i'd be a corporate lawyer today
but thanks to you i'm the vice president
but ironically he would lose
his election for presidency and so i
would go back to being a corporate
lawyer
before actually becoming the president
in 1968
and uh nixon was widely regarded as a
dulles mouthpiece while he was in
congress
according to peter dale scott and they
worked closely together when during the
eyes in our administration when nixon
was the vice president
and he played it important he was in on
all the secret operations
the cia stuff although eisenhower was
also
very into it despite his he tried to
create this image of himself as kind of
like hands off and he was the nice guy
and like the donald trumps were to blame
but his story is increasingly eisenhower
has told me to play but it had all of it
but nixon
was also in on all of it interesting so
they almost it was almost like a club
even for
it was just every year they would have
this big dinner
all the former associates would attend
this thing and they would have skits and
stuff
it was like a yearly event it was it was
called the solar carmel society
so it's like we'd be out of the law firm
cromwell created that oh it's almost
like the
well with the skits and stuff it reminds
me of the like the bohemian grove or
something like that
you don't want similar things it's like
a kind of yeah it's sort of like a doubt
it's sort of similar to this other kind
of more infamous conspiracy that works
or it's just sort of like
everyone that's worked there or people
that got that didn't work there like
nixon
had this kind of sullivan problem
network and so london cromwell
the partners send boarded directors of
their client companies
so like john foster dallas was on like
15 boards of directors
for just for one example so like all
these different american corporations
had sullivan criminal people
there and so it's sort of like you know
the salon incredible network
not that it's like all controlling
everything you have to see it it's just
like
it's one of the many networks that they
created
like um the dolph brothers also created
like the consulate foreign relations
and many of these whole they were there
at the birth of
using these ngos as and fix taxes tools
of american imperialism
and caa covert operations no that's
fascinating i never knew it was
i mean it goes far beyond just being a
little law firm or
you know even just a corporation it's a
it's a whole different kind of thing
yeah so go ahead go into this uh slide
to this part about the panama canal
yes um cromwell greatest prime
was the creation of the panama canal and
the
creation of the country of panama
because the fact that it was part of
columbia
and then columbia wouldn't give him the
deal he wanted he like
he'd also set up this railroad down
there and use those employees to like
launch a coup and then all the railroad
employees became the people
in the government and they came to new
york to like get this huge thing of cash
to like bribe all this
to pay off all their supporters so they
create
cromwell created panama he created the
panama canal
he it was like this he was working for
this fridge company that had built the
suez canal but then bank
went bankrupt building the panama canal
i guess like 15 000
black poor black workers had died during
the french project
that part was like left out and they
found it out recently basically almost
like slave
labor conditions and um promo also had
i guess american always planned to build
a canal through nicaragua
and especially the southern senators
had always favored this thing because
they wanted to be able to ship their the
products of their stuff
to california i guess cheap and so
he had to go up against the powerful
nicaraguan canal bobby and just by like
getting close to william mckinley
through his right-hand man
mark hammond hannah by bribing various
congressmen he hired journalist roger
farnham to set up a pre-pr
firm farnham would go on to be the vice
president of national citibank
which is citibank today and the
president of the haiti railway
city bank has been involved with like so
much crazy bad stuff over the years uh
like during the irad cache era and long
before that
anyways cromwell caused riots in paris
but he like mastered by the scheme where
like his
big investors would get paid back and
the small investors
would get like barely anything which is
what happens
over and over again every time things
crash or whatever
it's always like people that invest
their savings in there
that gets wiped out and like big
corporations always get their money back
and stalin and cromwell always managed
to break things
that way they've done it again and again
it's like when you read this book it's
like
every time you know history repeats
itself and the same people with solomon
cromwell
were defending back in 100 years ago or
the same people that like
screwed everybody over during the crash
of 2008.
this stuff is still going on i mean it's
solar problems still the most powerful
corporate law firm
they still exist today right i mean yes
absolutely
exactly while working on the panama
canal this is the time period where
this looks like john foster dulles's
father or grand grandfather grandfather
yeah he hired jack foster tells his
grandfather
john foster who had uh worked for
sullivan back in the in ohio in 1855.
during the penalty now deal that later
it was uh
john foster asked travel for favor to
hire his son
john foster delos after he got rejected
at the law firm and so he did hire him
and then john foster delos sort of took
over
as the most important figure after
cromwell
and he was his era was the era
where solomon travel became involved
with engineering these huge investments
in germany for the american corporations
because they came out of world war one
very well and they also
were reaping these huge profits from
like wilson's
imperialist moves like he invaded all
these countries in latin america
before after world war one part they
usually leave all the history books
see he entered only at the very end so
america suffered the least and was like
the most powerful
and sort of like it was a smaller
version of what happened after world war
ii or
this is when america really came out of
the international scene was
finally able to compete with the
friendship british because they owed
them all this money for
what they'd spent during world war one
and uh the whole thing but they could
they were broke and they couldn't pay
and
they also were demanding these huge
rapper races from germany so john foster
dollars made his fame by
serving on the reparations committee
signed this deal where america would
loan germany the money to pay back
france and britain
and then that would keep the financial
merry-go-round of the world going
through the 1920s the roaring 20s until
it all crashed
and hitler came into power but then john
foster jealous the next thing he did was
he helped all the american corporations
invested and built up
nazi germany as a bulwark against soviet
russia which is what
of course all these corporations feared
most was communism
not hitler and so um that's what a lot
of my article deals with
right right he worked with ig farvan he
worked with
yalmar shocked this was i guess in
weimar germany right so
it started it started immediately after
world war one
and they were already thinking about how
they had to build germany up against the
soviet union and the threat of communism
because germany had had a failed
revolution
it was finally put down hungary had a
revolution that they put down
that was alex dulce's like he was the
one who was like you've got to start
backing the fascist dictator
horthy which they did and then waged
a covert war on the infinite soviet
russia
which they lost so yes this is post
world war one period when like the
dulles brothers
really come out of the world stage but
john foster dulles did always
his like his grandfather had been
secretary of state their uncle
was the future secretary of state robert
lansing
and so he when he became the secretary
of state during world war one
and he appointed them out of these
versailles
committee commissions and they were also
job foster dollars and also
president wilson had been his favorite
professor at college
and they actually had more influence
with wilson because
let robert their uncle robert lansing
had told wilson you know like let me
handle these first side things you don't
have to go to europe and wilson was just
borderline offended by that so even
though they only got to go there because
of their uncle they're actually closer
to the president than their uncle
because
we had this uh relationship where
because uh john foster ellis had gone to
princeton while woodward wilson was the
president of that university oh wow
who's his favorite professor huh and
alan also suggested in the
back the fascist hungary like you really
supposedly like a low-level person
wilson's like yes we got to do this and
now they were not involved with the law
firm at this point or they were
john foster dollars already was allen
dolls
was at the state department and then
would join the law firm
in the 20s 1925 i think okay
so it's still kind of the revolving door
thing we have today like
in the corporation to the government
yeah john foster does
joined it before yeah he joined it
before world war one he engineered
the u.s occupation of cuba
as a favor from his uncle who was the
then the secretary
was like i think the department of navy
or the secretary are an under secretary
of defense or something i mean that
defense
like war so um he was already doing he
was doing like
you know solving crime like stronger
latin american governments engineering
coups and stuff like that before
world war one started and then during
world war one he's
slipped on the war trade board but he
his even though al adults wasn't at saul
and cromwell because they were brothers
and because
you know it's like this network ellen
dulles was sort of like his eyes and
ears were departure on
what was going on using his state
department connections
and he was also really a spy like even
though he was supposedly
in the state department during this
world war period actually he was already
doing intelligence work and actually he
was allendals during the war was
stationed at byrne
the same place he'd be stationed during
world war ii
from which he would be doing all this
treacherous stuff with
german businessmen what he called the
good germans and doing the secret deal
with
the nazi ss all right if you were a guy
uh
carl wolfe right but then that doesn't
hasn't changed right because
you showed earlier how they were working
with the confederacy
and other yeah they would go in and out
yeah it would go into the yes it's the
corporate governmental revolving door
where they'd go
into the government then back to salem
and crime well then back to the
government
many times yeah and they would also work
at the same time for the government and
the corporation
basically oh did they do that as well
really yeah where do we just be
like john paul recalled it as legal
counsel to these different
big conferences even though he was still
working at sullivan grandma
so what were some of the deals that they
had like when you say that they were
working with
like ig farben and stuff was it just a
matter of
investing in these german companies to
help them grow
like what was that you know we always
hear about ibm
uh it was a total it was like a marriage
of
the interlocking corporate elite of the
united states with the interlocking
corporate elite of germany
where forbes gm itt stand over new
jersey and
ig farber and aeg and veronica stalworks
were all became like closely to lake
where these german figures would
serve on like the board of like ford
germany or something
the american people would be like owning
huge
like a ge or 30 of the
biggest the german steel um electricity
trust aeg
so it was just sort of like an
interlocking incestuous relationship
that built up before
and after hitler came to power so they
actually shared like ownership of these
companies it wasn't just
in some cases yes in other cases there
was german companies
trying to buy into specific american
cartels like the nickel cartel
and to get strategic renewals that
during the war they would
use to like supply themselves and also
they'd come to these patent agreements
that would
prevent the united states from producing
technologies because
german corporations had patents on it
and strangely even though it's obviously
where total war
they have to respect these the laws of
the multinational corporations
apparently
trump the necessities of a country at
war because
they would they allow these german
patents to like
halt vital materials to admit that
american aided and john foster
was all he did the legal work for a lot
of that yeah that is that's
what's so strange uh that tell i mean or
not
yes it's not so strange because really
it's like of course capitalism creates
fascism
to when it's worried that communism
might take over so it's sort of like an
extreme measure
and they don't agree we're supporting
fascism not just in germany but in italy
and japan
and all these little teeny countries
that people have forgotten were fascists
right like poland right and and then
when you add in
the element of like these huge profits
and the need to
from america to invest all the money it
was making
overseas to keep like that's how
capitalism works like the money has to
keep flowing and when
it gets christopher simpson to call this
sort of like a
financial constipation where it will get
stuck in the place
so you have the key is always to like
engineer
these scams to keep the money flowing
and germany was like central
in that whole the whole economic history
of the 1920s and 30s it was the the
biggest growth of american investments
was in germany and like all the major
household days a day we're in business
with hitler
like ford gn itt which became 18t
standard oil new jersey which is owned
by like the rockefellers
and like they owned all the seven oil
people like they
made they split up the standard oil
monopoly but then they just
created these other teeny companies and
those are the ones that later change
their names to like
the oil companies we know today was
there any specifics in the books about
like
some of the products that they couldn't
make or were some of the products that
were going to germany
from the united states during the war
and things like that like for one
example is like um
a pro a process to turn coal into oil
which
only charity had the patent for but like
an american corporation actually
send it to them they things like that
people can check out this great dave
emery thing called
uncle sam in the swastika and it will
just go into like
huge detail about this patent thing but
i don't remember all like the specific
details the top of my head yeah i know
that's
that's a really good it's different
different types of things like a a thing
you need for
you know it's like a plain part or
something something or like
just like a simple thing like that or a
process for rubber
and all that kind of stuff could
seriously affect the war effort when
you're not allowed to use it
right right and congressional
investigators found that this
creation of production bottlenecks they
forced patent loss
done more damage than like a hundred
savateurs could have done because they
instead of blowing up factories it kept
them from being built in the first place
right right and now there was some like
attempt to crack down on it during the
war right that mean there was
yes eventually like late in the war was
there not there's these two competing
factions in the us you have the fdr
faction or especially it's like the
people to the left of him
like uh henry morgan thought they wanted
to
crack down all these people locked them
in jail et cetera and then of course
there was the
dulles faction which was the one that
would have been locked in jail so
obviously
they took the opposite approach they
were supporting they were they supported
hitler they thought
fdr was like a commie and they were
basically
completely like during the war of john
foster dulles was completely pro german
during the whole thing and
he just sort of disguised it under he
became a spokesman for the
federal council of churches and the six
pillars of peace and he was like we have
to get rid of the idea of
demonizing certain leaders like and he
find out he made hitler
mussolini and but then after the war he
became the
prime person who created like the
demonic view of the soviet union where
everything they did was
was sinister and evil like if they
wanted peace it's just a trick
like a dastardly thing to like get you
to drop your guard if they're aggressive
response to america be aggressive you
know it's like they clearly want to
conquer the world
right right so basically yes they were
traders out and they would have been
some people think i think really fdr he
was kind of more pragmatic so there's
really no
like what he would have done or if he
could have would have prevented the cold
war if he would actually lock the people
up
but he definitely told like his his
friends that he would do it so like they
believed it but actually after as soon
as
before the war ended fdr died treatment
came in
and the dulles the anti-soviet dulles
faction completely
went over because after i was really
everyone at the state department
supported the donors were actuated
and like the only could get some people
to like do what he said
while he was alive but as soon as they
were he was dead it was sort of like
of course they're gonna rebuild germany
and not punish them and the pro-german
faction that was like more league with
corporate america
totally took over the american foreign
policy
they never let go since yeah hence the
cold war
right well before we get into some of
that stuff talk a little bit more about
the animosity between
john foster dulles and fdr and did the
dulles faction have anything to do with
that
um with the business plot in 1934
i specifically find that they did but it
was their friends
that were involved in it so i would not
be at all surprised if they did know
about it
because it was like they've worked for
jp morgan off and on for many years
and like the duponts were another like
super pro german american corporation
that they didn't work for but i'm sure
he
i'm sure he probably supported the coup
against fdr if he was in on it
so did general macarthur right he was
like another coup candidate but
unfortunately they went to smedley
butler
and he although he was like kind of a
right winger he was that was
going way too far for him and he exposed
it but the corporate backers never got
punished
right well you talk you do have one a
big section in here about
the voluntary arianization i guess this
probably
this is more about how the the germans
kind of took over their
the nazis took over the german economy
right yes after the nazis took over
hitler passed these laws that you you
couldn't take money out of germany you
had to reinvest your profits like if you
were
like i say forward you had to reinvest
your profits in germany
and so like there's two main things you
could invest in with one was illegal
armaments the other one was this
voluntary aeration in quotes because it
wasn't
actually voluntary but just on the
surface before they like
just come later they moved to
involuntary
but the beginning was this uh voluntary
organization where
basically german firms would buy up
jewish owned businesses for pennies on
the dollar
they would buy it using bonds floated
out of the international market
by people like the dylan rate investment
bank which is
is important as solemn and cromwell in
like the history of of influential
people that came out of dylan reed that
later became foreign policy planners
it's like eight people including like
the
three main ones uh william draper james
forestall and paul nitza
but um during the 30s and william draper
was especially above this
voluntary organization so basically
because you could buy a business for
less than it's actually worth that
generates huge
profits for whoever it was big business
basically it's kind of like the
80s with hostile takeovers but then you
had this extra element where
it's behind the scenes you have the
gestapo pressuring the company
to sell at like a super low price
because
they would like literally lock the odors
up in jail and
you know beat them up and be like do you
want to get sent to the death camp or do
you want to sell off your
company and so that was like a billion
dollar businesses like the german owners
took over the
jewish all the jewish business owned
businesses in germany
and then after the war began
that process was expanded out all over
europe where they just like eluded
all of not just jewish business but
especially jewish businesses all over
uh the areas that they occupied
and american companies and it was the
american investors they were
they would put these bonds these german
bonds on the market and that's where the
money was
actually going was for these area
station deals you know it's like
americans like william draper
and john foster was involved in doing
the legal work for a lot of these bonds
that were
the ones giving them the pennies to buy
the company
you have something here after the war
the dulles brothers made sure nobody was
punished
yes and that was a that's another theme
of uh christopher's classic let's split
it bad beast is like
it's the story of two times a dollars
voters swoop in to
avoid germany having to pay for his
crimes but like really in world war one
their crimes were
very minor and really they were more
other it was very equal
like what they were doing versus what
the allies were doing because they lost
they had to pay for all the damage they
caused basically
but after world war ii the germans had
committed this
massive genocide had killed like
possibly
up to like 50 million people and the
dulles brothers again
moved in to save the corporations that
backed hitler and to save the ss war
criminals and to save
all of the different fascist death
squads that they
like for example the ukrainians who are
in the news today whatever
that was when they i think like 20 000
of them or more
were like smuggled out settled in canada
america argentina australia places all
over the world
so there's that element and then there's
like the list of he would
all the german companies that he was in
business with before the war he made
sure that
they had made huge profits off of slave
labor
and because they didn't have to feed
their workers and they would just die
and the assets would send
more slaves so that was hugely
profitable the japanese were also
bigger than that and they made sure that
all those german companies that it was
covered up what they'd done
through the war that they're all good
germans and really
deep in their hearts they'd oppose
hitler but they unfortunately you know
made huge sums of money of slavery and
genocide but
they were still the good germans because
all the really bad germans
and their vines you know communist
people oppose the hitler
right was there was there similar things
going on with
the japanese uh or no oh absolutely and
that i wrote an
article earlier this year based on the
gold warriors by the
the sea grace the husband and wife
writers this
peggy and sterling steve grave and that
was like a similar story where the
japanese had like
booted all this gold and made these huge
fortunes off slave labor
that america in and like told the wall
that like they were totally bankrupt
after the war
for like a sizable cut that the cia used
to finance
its covert operations just like they
seized a certain amount of the nazi gold
and then let them keep a lot of the rest
of it and that is really the reason
why germany and japan became were able
to like rise back up to becoming these
huge economic superpowers that they were
about the 1980s was because of this like
they're allowed to keep their
their loot hit it and they use it to
rebuild their industries so there was
even competing with america
and sullivan cromwell actually was
ticket full cir supposedly
selling criminal actually did the legal
work for these huge
japanese corporations that are now
household wars in the 70s to bring him
on
the world stage for the 80s like sony's
people like that
hmm okay well let's turn to the like the
after
uh war period it almost is always seemed
to me that
the cia was just sort of basically
straight created out of
out of sullivan and cromwell to some
extent uh
how did uh how did the cia get formed
well it wasn't just
the other ones i would say carter lady
didn't billboard which is
frank wizards law firm and donovan
leader which was
oss founder william donovan's law firm
but yes um alan dulles i think eddie
wood
is like the godfather of the cia the
architect like the spirit
like kind of like an almost evil specter
hounding american history
is alex dulles and he came from solomon
cromwell
and he created the cia after the war
like
truman he just banned the oss because he
realized that like
with what they did which was
psychological warfare now controlling
the media
raising these secret operations to
destabilize things
he realized that that would completely
destroy american democracy so
he resisted creating it but he only
could resist
like after one year they had to create
the cig
and then the next year they created the
cia in 1947
and alan dulles was the one behind the
scenes writing the reports that would
like
you know designing the cia versus this
jackson and korea report
which fletcher probably talks about in
his book the secret team
and then he helped draft the national
security act which was
congress passed in 1947 which basically
created
this government of complete secrecy
where nobody knows what's actually going
on and
ever since then we've lived in this cia
controlled
america basically especially after they
killed jfk in 1963.
right and like the cia took over the
rule that sullivan carmel used to play
or that you died food company used to do
it on its
own and so now you have this one agency
that
just carries out coups on behalf of
corporate america all over the world
right built right into the government
yeah whether a country is a friend or an
enemy
the cia is in there they're getting
people to become loyal to
the cia not their own governments
whether
and if they're an enemy then they're
like trying to cause civil wars and
destabilization campaigns carrying out
false flag terror attacks et cetera
right so the the opc in the ca it was
these were two different organizations
and then initially
yes uh because truman was paranoid about
the cia
it was it was initially just publicly
supposed to be
you know an intelligence analysis
and one central place for intelligence
to be gathered and
analyzed not a covert action thing which
would
al dolph really care about intelligence
you care about covert action
and so before the cia really got
hardcore right away and although it
wasn't
involved in all this stuff we created
the opc which was part of the state
department
and that was run by frank wisner who was
also a corporate lawyer from
carter letter in bilmar and he was sort
of like the allen dulce's right-hand man
through this period of this cia
and uh but the opc was later they
brought it into the cia
because of this um murder wearing amer
an american um i don't remember if you
could every exact details but like
basically the opc assassinated
another american intelligence like a
military intelligence type person
because they were out of the heroin
trafficking that was going on
in southeast asia and that that created
the scandals
so all the details didn't went public
but peter del scott talked about it but
basically that's when the opc was
brought into the cia
it became the office of plans or
sometimes called the
office of operations the ddo or the ddp
and frank was
dos put frank wisdom in that role once
he was
the head of the cia until frank was they
went crazy but before that dulles had
been the
director of operations at the cia after
he managed to get in there
but before he became before uh isaac
came and
came in and became director so yeah the
opc was kind of like the proto cia and
this opc is the one that
people really should look into because
it's like all the dirtiest stuff that
america was that i'm too back bad like
the deals with like organizing these
nazis
to wage cover war on the soviet union
and like in ukraine and
the drug stuff in asia that was all like
the opc
was involved in all that stuff and also
the control of the media
like frank wisner was in charge of that
they called it the mighty warlock sir
right right that stuff is basically set
up under truman
but truman is a little hesitant and he's
kind of distrustful of the dulles
brothers
so eisenhower comes in along in 52 and
basically gives adults brothers
their positions in the government so how
does that get going yeah truman
truman appointed a series of generals
like cindy stewart
that was the cig the head of the cig
like vandenberg and then walter bella
smith was like
director that like hung around for a
while but then once eisenhower came in
dolis got to get his dream of finally
becoming the director of the cia
and i guess henry luce wanted to become
the director of the cia oh really it was
this
another oss guy who ran the time life
empire
yeah and uh i should for talking about
the origin of the cia we should talk
about the origin of the american media
which is another book that christmas
talked about where basically
all the most all the heads of these
major media corporations were all
oss former psychological warfare experts
and that's like a vital element of cold
war history they will forget it's like
that's why you shouldn't trust the media
because it's basically they're waging
psychological warfare on you to get you
to support america's
foreign policy and turn the world on its
head where like
you think america is just trying to
defend itself and that
you know aggressors are coming at it
from everywhere but really
it's america that was the aggressor
during the cold war
and the soviets were just scared and
this is cd jackson
right henry yes cd jackson city jackson
henry blues
people like that um arthur bliss lane
at readers digest he's another important
one and they also sat on these secret
committees of like operation bloodstone
which was this
bringing all these fascists into
the american detail of gentia and
putting in all these universities and
putting them in the media
and putting them in foreign policy
planning that
should be history it should be more
famous evaporation paper clip but
i think i've only read christopher
simpson talking about it and
arthur bruce lane was you know a lot of
these guys were on that
so it's kind of like there's only 200 of
these international
people with experience in international
business that work for these
multinational corporations and they made
up the
american ford policy elite and they all
know each other
and a lot of them the sons of the rich
join the intelligence agencies during
the war so they don't get killed
so all these media empires were
controlled by the oss basically former
oss
adults could just call up any any
newspaper in the
country just be like fire this guy here
he's talking too much about what's going
on
guatemala about how our brand is good
part of this guy here in japan he's like
revealing too much about what macarthur
is up to or
the cia behind the scenes is controlling
the media right so oh yeah i mean you
want to talk about a little bit about
what happened in guatemala and iran i
mean i know
most people know about the coups but um
how what was sullivan cromwell's role
specifically in those events
once eisenhower came into power he
appointed john poster delos
as secretary of state because after the
war
john foster does made himself as a top
gop foreign policy expert
so why did he was there for like the
birth of the u.n to like
ruin that and so the russians call them
like uh
with the worst imperialist it's never
that he actually
took that as a point of pride and
bragged about it was always like
like the soviets tried to expose all
their adult brothers
to business ties to the nazis and so
that after that
no american journalist could say
anything about it because then the
dollars would buy this would be like
you're towing the moscow line like today
how they try to do it but
calling things russian propaganda like
oh there's nazis in ukraine
all your that's just russian propaganda
or you must be a bunch of propagandists
if you say this and so um
what's the you have the brother who's
like the head of
the section secretary of state and you
have um alex dulles the head of the cia
and those two agencies always have this
kind of like brotherly
relationship with like like we were
saying earlier
the state department was actually
running it even worse bigger than
like the early cia the office of policy
coordination under frank wizard
so now they're working in perfect
harmony just like they always are or
like you don't know
whether some of the state department is
actually at the state department or
whether the cia
i grew up around dc and that was always
a joke like anywhere in the state
department it's like people are like oh
are you in the cia
and so anyways that that relationship
that close relationship between
the cia and the state bar was never more
close than during the
dulles um when two brothers were in
charge of both
and they could just decide things with
private meetings with eisenhower and
them
a lot of the history was completely off
the record it's like i played the boss
because it's just like
they're just you know beat up for
drake's and play their
next books right even though they were
no longer at celebrative officially they
were still carrying out
the business of sullivan and crabwell
because the coups that they carried out
were actually
on behalf of some of the promo crimes
like um
anglo-american oil which later changed
there to bp which
it signed this agreement with iran was
basically economy
of britain it had gotten like whatever
the important charge at the time was to
sign this deal where britain would
get free access to all iranian oil and
only have to pay on like a pittance
and after world war ii like nationalism
was on the rise because
the european powers have been like
beaten in
they owned all this money and their
they've lost on this property they no
longer had the financial wherewithal to
like
keep their colonies firm so this is the
era
where all the colonies were new
independence all over the world
and they were like inspiring each other
and i ran with one of those countries
they had there they had mozadek who um
rose up on this issue before he even
came to power he had the
iranian problem i'd put whether before
he would accept power he had to vote
that they would all
nationalize the oil company and so
i iran's oil would go to benefit iran
and not
angular american oil today british
petroleum
and even though truman opposed like a
coup alan dels was working on that
when truman was still in power
with the british and then the exchange
and so then what's eisenhower came in
he's like yes go for this coup
they falsely claimed that mosaic was a
communist because
you would not allow the communist party
and that was a major i live american
foreign policy at the time which was
that
you to be declared democratic you had to
ban
communists from the government and right
even if they were popular so the
votes even if like say congress could
win like a certain
number of votes they shouldn't be
allowed to serve
and a lot of people like they work
themselves congress but they're like no
i mean especially since the communists
were signing with moses
he's like no i'm not gonna ban them from
power
and so they were like you know reds are
about to take over iran
even though moses could work with
america to force the
soviets to leave northern iran because
they had been through the war they'd
been allowed to occupy northern iran to
make sure that
the oil supplies wouldn't be cut off by
the british and
then after the war they're like you know
get out of here as soon as possible like
you know creating a stereotype as if you
know they're about to take over the
whole country and so then they got them
to withdraw
and then but then they forced mozadec
out too like years later a couple of few
years later
and basically this was like it wasn't
really the first
they were already it interfered in italy
and that was when like al dallas wasn't
even at the cia but he was working
behind the scenes with the
office of policy coordination and he was
working
at what point he went around all these
different corporate heads and got them
to like
give them like millions of dollars to
like break the italian election
in 1948 and then iran was the big
example where they
set up these you know they waged
psychological warfare they
carried out false flag terror attacks
where they would they had people pretend
to be communists who would attack
religious leaders and then the religious
leaders would denounce the communists
and then
they bribed this military
guy to like side with the shah
against mosaddeq and eventually after
like what failed a coup attempt they got
they had a successful coup attempt it
was badged by teddy roosevelt's grandson
kermit roosevelt so bosnick was thrown
out the shah was
brought in the cia and israel helped him
train like
this brutal eternal secret police the
savak
which would use all these horrible
methods of
torture to keep people in line until
eventually like in
1939 he got oh yeah i guess it was
probably a son got it with her
that was all on the path of ago
irradiated oil which was a salon on
camera oh that was a client
client of theirs and then the crew at
guatemala guatemala was also a celebrant
criminal client
and uh united fruit which alan dallas
had also served
on the board of directors on and his
christopher system
like united was a pacesetter in
finding ways to do illegal business with
germany
against the tests of the american and
british governments to regulate it or
whatever
but that was like but when alan's
specialties that's why corporate law
that's what they have in common with the
cia is that they set up these fronts and
these
things all over the world and move money
and secret and
well it's funny they always accuse uh
you know communism of being
internationalist and and being
conspiratorial but that is exactly what
they are doing there
they have no regard for their own
national government
and they are operating in total secret
well of course
the case the kgb was an intelligence
agency like when it came to spying they
were actually better than the americans
but they never
mounted these coups all over the world
so when people claim it's like equal
signs
like no it never happened it was never
like they just claimed that they were
like whenever our nationalists would
take power they're like
no they're secretly controlled by the
kremlin we don't need proof
we know just because if their goals are
in line with the kremlin then they just
say that they were
criminal institutions just because they
wanted to like nationalize their things
which is you know
that was why the right on the spectrum
of communism so whether they were
nationalists or communists they
opposed them whether they were like it
communists that were independent of
like their sponsors like vietnam they
opposed them
exactly vietnam's a perfect example
they tried to claim that the sign of
soviet split was just a big fake like i
was saying earlier it's like
michael prenty does this great routine
about it where it's just like you
interpret
everything that somebody union does just
bad whether it's like
aggressive or peaceful whether it's like
does nothing at all
they're just trying to lull you in a
false sense of security
to decide this already a deal they're
just trying to like set you up
so i could secretly have an advantage
well it's the same thing with like the
fracking
thing here it's like that that has even
become a vladimir putin thing because
people absolutely you know well that's
why they bring it back because it's so
useful just be like oh of course
everybody that is opposed to the war on
syria is just a russian agent
everybody that is exposing what we're
doing in ukraine is a russian agent
black lives matter protesters they're
just russian agents
like everything is just a russian thing
to divide our like perfect democracy
which is a joke because the
average people don't actually want all
these wars if they just ignore them
average people don't want corporations
to like get super rich while the rest of
us are super poor but they just ignore
them
so it's not really a democracy when you
only can vote for
two parties that are complete they both
support capitalism
and they both support war just what is
more openly racist than the other
yeah well that's basically all it's come
down to so they have to
create this second cold war basically
which is why i was actually studying
this
i've studied the origin of the first
cold war yeah but they're so
studying one you get such a great idea
of what's really happening because
at least when you study the old one a
lot of it
has sort of come out you know but now
then then you can look at the new one
and see all the lies basically because
it's just
you can see the same things they're
talking about today that they used to
try to pass off back then but now we
know
is you know all total [ __ ] but so so
what's going on today with uh
sullivan and cromwell you've got your
last part of your article a little bit
about uh
peter thiel and then some of what's
going on oh yes
peter thiel who works for like works
closely with this
cia venture capital firm inquito and was
one of the
primary funders of the foundation of
facebook
started at solomon cromwell so they're
still apparently
involved in both like corporate power
and apparently
people that go on to be involved with
the cia still come out of southern
cromwell
but my book my book only went up to the
eight days they were like
yeah they're if you people have seen
everybody wall street
like slaughter the problem that era was
would fit perfectly into that movie yeah
they're all about defending and
launching hostile takeovers
basically well it's it's really it's a
it's a great article and it's
it's such an important topic and it's
like it's really good people definitely
should read it and uh you know it's got
so much detail that we couldn't
couldn't talk about here but yeah it's
cool do you want to do you want to add
anything else oh i definitely want to
add this
quote from john foster delos which sums
up his whole editor
plus there are two kinds of people in
the world there are those who are
christians and support free enterprise
and then there are the others
that's that that basically that sums up
their propaganda
i think perfectly and i think we see it
today right
absolutely what with the
because the media the control of the
media is like 10 times worse now because
it's just a complete monopoly of seven
corporations or at least back then there
were like
all these hundreds of media things they
had to control and now it's just all
totally centralized
oh it's horrible really propaganda like
especially
24 hours a day well i mean even when you
look
when you do study like the jfk
assassination
and you study the early news reports at
least there were all of these
local newspapers and hundreds of each
city had their own newspaper
and was sending reporters out and and we
know the press still had the
cia was doing a lot of the big
broadcasting networks but there was
still ways for
you know serious professionals who are
getting paid to go and find
new information and get it out one way
and now it's just
except for people on the internet who
don't have
you know we can say whatever we want but
we're not getting paid shutting that
down now
and that's true exactly we don't have
any resources and they're like
now they're like make it so that people
can't spread that kind of information
like i could still post my blog but now
since they started censoring it you know
yeah
everybody's numbers are down in the
alternate media now like youtube is
actively trying to promote like the
mainstream media it's like oh wouldn't
you like to watch this thing for abc
news like is that what youtube is for
really
yeah no i don't want to watch that i
just turn on the tv
exactly and now they're even offering i
mean i see i get a pop-up on my thing
that's like
oh now watch 60-plus channels of things
just so now they want people to go back
to like
you know plop down on the sofa and pick
between 60
[ __ ] channels instead of you know
get lost in
all kinds of amazing stuff that you were
totally interested in now is just
go back to being a couch potato kind of
thing
yeah really it's like people don't want
to know people don't
the yeah i was the average people they
don't want to know it's like they'll
tell you this it's like
you get this blank stare it's like i
don't want to hear about bad things that
america's doing like
what like or like why would you be why
would you study that
like what i care about like
they'll be like oh i just don't have
time to totally totally
eventually i just feel like eventually
the world comes you know and
slams your head against the wall when
people aren't paying enough attention i
think that's what's happening
now with all this stuff you know well
that's the main difference between this
cold war
and the first one is the first one
started right after they've had all the
new deal
this one is starting after they've cut
all that out
and they've destroyed the social safety
net like the whole
economy is like on the verge of collapse
that's just like
in 20 years and they're going to spend a
trillion dollars on nuclear weapons
and it's like there's no health care
it's like
20 years you know our country is going
to
look like a third-world country that
already does it already is a third-world
country basically now but i think
it'll be way worse in 20 years
they just keep spending everything on
the military and nothing
on the populace and they keep just like
letting these multinational corporations
run wild and never no matter they steal
billions of dollars
of course you can't send them the person
that would be inhumane if someone steals
a candy bar
some [ __ ] and like shiv in the back and
like they'll be like a million
right-wingers saying how
he had it coming yep that's the state of
things
[Music]
this is our hidden history
you